Anus::::Digestive - The part at the end of the digestive system where the feces are excreted.
Caecum (Cecum)::::Digestive - Produces cellulase to break down cellulose
Gallbladder::::Digestive - Small pouch that stores the bile from the liver and excretes it when needed.
Kidney::::Excretory - Filters waste and excess water from the blood and excretes the waste with the urine.
Large Intestine::::Digestive - Organ that absorbs the water from the undigestible waste with osmosis and contains the appendix that produces bacteria that produce Vitamins K and B.
Liver::::Digestive - Produces bile to break down fats in the small intestine.
Pancreas::::Digestive and Endocrine - Produces sodium bicarbonate and enzymes to break down biomolecules (digestive) and insulin and glucagon to maintain a stable blood sugar level in the liver (endocrine).
Peritoneum::::Integumentary - The tissue that layers the inside of the skin, preventing movement of the organs inside of the pig.
Scrotum::::Reproductive - A pouch that helps to hold and protect the testicles.
Small Intestine::::Digestive - Breaks apart the lipids and absorbs the nutrients through diffusion into the villi, where it enters capillaries and goes through the blood stream.
Spleen::::Lymphatic and Circulatory - Produces lymphocytes, or white blood cells, to replace the white blood cells that died or got damaged while fighting a disease (lymphatic). It also recognizes and clears out dead or extremely damaged red blood cells (circulatory).
Stomach::::Digestive - Produces pepsinogen (which becomes pepsin in the acidic Ph location due the hydrochloric acid) to break down proteins, hydrochloric acid which lowers the Ph level, and mucus to protect the stomach walls.
Umbilical Arteries::::Circulatory - Transfers deoxygenated blood from the fetus to the placenta, which also carries urea, carbon dioxide, and other waste products.
Umbilical Cord::::Circulatory - Cord used in the exchange of nutrients and oxygenated/deoxygenated blood between the fetus and the placenta.
Umbilical Vein::::Circulatory - Transfers oxygenated blood from the placenta to the fetus, carrying nutrients for the fetus to grow and develop.
Urinary Bladder::::Excretory - A small pouch that stores the urine before it exits the urogenital opening.
Urogenital Opening (female/male)::::Reproductive and Excretory - In the male, it is where the penis will form and in the female, it is where the penis will enter (reproductive). It is also where the urine will exit the pig (excretory).
Urogenital Papilla::::Reproductive - It is the location where the vagina will develop and where mating will occur.
Diaphragm::::Respiratory - A large, dome-shaped muscle that contracts and relaxes to allow for the flow of air into and out of the lungs.
Larynx::::Respiratory - Short tube that holds the two vocal cords, which will vibrate due to air flow. It also connects the pharynx to the trachea.
Lungs::::Respiratory - The two pouch-like structures located in the sealed chest cavity. It is the location where gas exchange occurs for the blood to become oxygenated. The diaphragm's contractions help to pull air into these pouches. They will inflate and deflate as air moves in and out.
Pericardium::::Integumentary - The membrane that protects the heart from outside damage and holds the heart in place.
Thymus Glands/Tissue::::Endocrine - The glands produce a hormone called thymosin which stimulates T-cell growth and development. T-cells then begin to specialize in certain areas and get sent to that area to fight off certain infections/diseases/carry out their function. The gland gets smaller as time goes on because the lymphocytes are becoming specialized, so they glands are not necessary anymore.
Thyroid Gland::::Endocrine - Produces hormones, such as thyroxine (T4) and calcitonin. Thyroxine regulates and controls cellular respiration. An under-active gland could cause hypothyroidism in which the gland enlarges, lower body temperature, weight gain, and lack of energy. An over-active gland could cause nervousness, weight loss, and an increase in body temperature/blood pressure. Calcitonin lowers the blood calcium levels in children as a form of homeostasis.
Trachea::::Respiratory - Tube that connects the lungs to the larynx. The air that is breathed in passes through the trachea to enter the lungs.
Aorta::::Circulatory - The tube that connects the left ventricle to the descending aorta, delivering oxygenated blood to all cells in the body. When it reaches the capillaries in the feet, skeletal muscular contractions and valves help to push the deoxygenated blood back up to the heart.
Atrium (left/right)::::Circulatory - Right: The part of the heart that receives deoxygenated blood from the superior and inferior vena cava, delivering it to the right ventricle. Left: The part of the heart that receives oxygenated blood from the pulmonary vein, sending it to the left ventricle.
Auricle (left/right)::::Circulatory - Part of the heart that helps to expand the volume of the atria, allowing for a larger capacity of blood to be in the atria at all times.
Coronary Artery::::Circulatory - The artery that travels across the outside of the heart, delivering oxygenated blood to the cells and tissue of the heart.
Esophagus::::Digestive - The tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach. The bolus moves through the tube through a process called peristalsis, where the walls of this organ contract and relax to push the bolus into the stomach. The LES is located at the bottom of this organ.
Lower Esophageal Sphincter::::Digestive - The circular muscle located between the esophagus and the stomach. It opens and closes to allow small pieces of the bolus enter the stomach at once and helps to prevent any of the chyme in the stomach from backing up into the esophagus and burn the lining.
Mesentery::::Integumentary - The tissue that contains the capillaries. The nutrients in the food that enter the small intestine are absorbed by small wave-like structures called villi. The nutrients then pass through these capillaries and are put into the blood stream to be sent all over the body.
Pulmonary Artery::::Circulatory - The artery that delivers deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle to the lungs, where it will then become oxygenated.
Pyloric Sphincter::::Digestive - The circular muscle located in between the stomach and the small intestine. It slowly allows chyme to enter the small intestine so that not too much goes in at once. Peristaltic mixing waves help to push the chyme into the small intestine.
Ureter::::Excretory - The tube that connects a kidney to the urinary bladder. There are two, one for each kidney. The urine travels from the kidney, through this organ, and into the urinary bladder where it is stored.
Vena Cava (Inferior/Superior)::::Circulatory - The tubes (one posterior and one anterior) that deoxygenated blood travels through to get from the parts of the body that they were in to the right atrium.
Ventricle (left/right)::::Circulatory - Right: The part of the heart that receives deoxygenated blood from the right atrium and sends it through the pulmonary artery to get to the lungs. Left: The part of the heart that receives oxygenated blood from the left atrium and sends it through the aorta to get sent around the body.
Differences Between Fetal and Postnatal::::Circulatory System: Fetus has foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus to direct the mix of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood from the pulmonary circulation to the systemic circulation (since the blood cannot be oxygenated by the lungs). Postnatal organisms get their blood to go through the regular flow of pulmonary and systemic circulation.
Excretory System: Fetus does not excrete urine containing urea. Instead, it excretes amniotic fluid which is then swallowed. The urea is then sent out of the fetus to the placenta through the umbilical arteries. Postnatal organisms excrete their urine and the urea/waste products out of the urogenital opening.
Respiratory System: Fetuses get their oxygenated blood from the placenta. It is sent through the umbilical vein. The postnatal organisms use the diaphragm to have the flow of air go in and out of the lungs for gas exchange.
Epididymis::::Reproductive (male) - The part of the scrotal sac that acts as the "high school" where sperm are stored to grow and develop before they are sent out of the vas deferens.
Fallopian Tubes::::Reproductive (female) - The two tubes that connect the ovaries to the uterus. An egg will travel through these tubes to get to the uterus. It is the ONLY location where fertilization will occur.
Ovaries::::Reproductive (female) - The two "sacs" located at the ends of the fallopian tubes. They hold over 400,000 eggs for a woman during their lifetime. It is the location where ovulation will occur and the egg will be released into the fallopian tubes.
Penis::::Reproductive (male) - The part of the male where urination and ejaculation will both occur from the same location. It is projecting away from the body so that urinary tract infection will not occur as easily.
Rectum::::Digestive - The tube that stores the feces before it gets excreted from the anus. It connects the large intestine to the anus.
Scrotal Sac::::Reproductive (male) - The two separate pouches that hold both of the testes and epididymis. Both of them are located inside of the scrotum.
Testes::::Reproductive (male) - The two small pouches that are connected to the epididymis'. It is made of a long coiled tube where the sperm is produced.
Urethra::::Reproductive (male) and Excretory (both) - In males, it is the tube where urine and semen are excreted from the penis (reproductive and excretory). In females, it is only the tube where urine is excreted (excretory).
Uterus::::Reproductive (female) - The location at the end of the fallopian tubes where the blastocyst develops into a fetus by implanting onto the uterus walls and using its nourishment.
Vagina/Birth Canal::::Reproductive (female) - The pathway that connects the uterus to the labia of the female. It is the location where ejaculation will occur during sexual intercourse and the location that the fetus will pass through during child birth. It contains a cervix near the uterus and the labia near the opening to the outside world.
Vas Deferens (Sperm Duct)::::Reproductive (male) - The tube that connects the epididymis to the urethra where sperm travel before mixing with seminal fluid to create semen, which is then excreted from the body.
Brain Stem::::Nervous - Regulates important body functions like heart rate, blood pressure, breathing, swallowing, etc. It is part of the Central Nervous System because it is a part of the brain. This cord stops at the medulla oblongata.
Cerebellum::::Nervous - The part of the brain that signals certain muscles to oppose orignal movements from the cerebrum. Overall, it's function is the balance muscle actions to provide smooth movements and elegance.
Cerebrum::::Nervous - The part of the brain that signals the movement of all conscious actions, including muscle contractions, the brain process of learning, intelligence, and similar actions.
Ductus Arteriosus::::Circulatory - The small passage in only a fetal heart between the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The blood of a fetus is already oxygenated so it does not have to complete the entire blood cycle to get to the lungs for oxygen. This passage allows for the blood to move from the pulmonary artery that was leading to the lungs, straight into the aorta to go around the body. After birth, the high intensity of blood pressure will shut this passage closed.
Foramen Ovale::::Circulatory - The small passage in only a fetal heart between the right and left atria. The blood of a fetus is already oxygenated so it does not have to complete the entire blood cycle to get to the lungs for oxygen. This passage allows for the blood to move straight from the right atrium to the left atrium, so oxygen can be moved as efficiently as possible around the body.
Pulmonary Vein::::Circulatory - The tube that is connected to the left atrium and the lung capillaries. After the blood gets oxygenated and passes through the capillaries, it goes through this tube and enters the left atrium to go through the cycle of feeding all cells in the body.
Renal Artery::::Circulatory and Excretory - The tube that connects the heart to the kidneys. "Dirty" blood, filled with waste, passes through this tube into the kidneys. In the kidneys, filtration, reabsorption, and secretion occur as the blood continues to be cleaned out (circulatory). The waste from this tube then leaves the nephrons, into the collecting duct, into the ureter, into the urinary bladder, into the urethra, and out of the urogenital opening (excretory).
Renal Vein::::Circulatory and Excretory - The tube that connects the kidneys to the heart. "Clean" blood, already filtered in the kidneys, pass through this tube to return to the heart. It contains minerals that are only needed by the body's concentration levels (circulatory). The extra minerals are currently leaving the nephrons, going into the collecting duct, into the ureter, into the urinary bladder, into the urethra, and out of the urogenital opening (excretory).
Spinal Cord::::Nervous - This cord is basically the main "telephone tower" of the body. All messages that are sent to the brain from the nerves in the body pass through the cord that run up the back and are delivered. This cord begins at the medulla oblongata.
Vertebrae::::Skeletal - This structure helps to protect the spinal cord, give the body support to stay upright, and is the location where a lot of the muscles in the body are attached to.