ac::::an electron flow that switches back & forth
ampere::::the rate of electron flow similar to measuring the amount, force, or power of a current
attract::::to "pull" an object
battery::::a combination of two or more electrochemical cells
charge::::a buildup of electrons or the process of building up electrons
circuit::::an unbroken path along which electrons flow
compass::::a device with a magnetized needle that can spin freely
conductor::::material with loosely bound electrons through which current can flow
current::::the flow of electrons through a conductor
dc::::an electron flow that goes in one direction
electrochemical cell::::a device that transforms chemical energy into electrical energy
electrode::::a metal part of an electrochemical cell that gains or loses electrons
electrolyte::::a liquid or paste that conducts electricity
electromagnet::::a solenoid with a ferromagnetic core
field lines::::rows of force around a magnet
ground::::the side of a circuit that connects to the earth
insulator::::material with tightly bound electrons, which resist the flow of electrons
ohm::::the unit describing the resistance a material has to conducting a current
magnet::::an object the attracts iron, nickel, and cobalt
parallel::::a circuit with multiple paths
pole::::the end of a magnet
repel::::to "push" an object
resistance::::the degree to which a material opposes (restricts) the flow of electrons
series::::a circuit with a single path
short circuit::::a connection that allows current to take an unintended path
static::::not moving
solenoid::::a wire coil with flowing current
terminal::::an attachment point on an electrochemical cell or battery
transformer::::a device for increasing or decreasing voltage
voltage::::the amount of force pushing electrons in a current
electricity::::The movement and transfer of the energy of charged particles.
static electricity::::The buildup of a positive or negative electric charge on a materials surface.
induced charge::::the static charge in a neutral object that is caused when an already charged object is placed near it
current electricity::::Flow of an electric charge through a circuit.
resistor::::Lowers the amount of electric charge that flows through a device. Electricity has difficulty flowing through it.
series circuit::::Has one path for a current to flow.
parallel circuit::::Has multiple paths for a current to flow.
magnetic field::::An invisible area where the forces of magnetic attraction or repulsion can be detected.
electromagnet::::A device that is magnetized by current electricity. It is strongest at the poles.
generator::::A device that turns mechanical energy into electricity.
conductor::::Materials that allow electrons to move through them easily. example: metals
insulator::::A material in which electrons do not move easily from place to place.  example: rubber
grounding::::using a conductor to direct an electric charge into the ground
direct current::::Current in which electrons always flow in the same direction.
alternating current::::Electric current that changes its direction repeatedly.
fuse::::A safety device that melts when current is too high, breaking a circuit.
transformers::::A device which increases or decreases voltage.
volt::::unit for measuring voltage
attract::::This occurs when electrons are pulled together. (unlike poles)
repel::::This describes what occurs when electrons are pushed AWAY from each other. (like poles)
pole::::A place on a magnet where magnetism is strongest.
switch::::Controls the flow of charge in a circuit.
magnetosphere::::The area surrounding Earth that is influenced by Earth's magnetic field.
aurora::::Light display that occurs when charged particles trapped in the magnetosphere collide with Earth's atmosphere above the poles.