Effort Distance::::The distance over which the effort force acts in a simple machine
Effort Arm::::The distance from the pivot point (fulcrum) to the point at which the effort force is applied on the arm of a lever.
Effort Force::::The force exerted by a person (or a motor) when using a machine to lift a load.
Electric Motor::::A device that transforms electrical energy into mechanical energy.
Energy::::The ability to do work. Energy exists in many forms, such as chemical, mechanical, electrical, thermal, nuclear, kinetic, and light.
Fulcrum::::The pivot or fixed point around which a lever rotates.
Horsepower::::Unit of power in the English system that is equal to approximately 750 watts.
Inclined Plane::::A sloping surface such as a ramp or board that reduces the amount of force required to do work by increasing the effort distance.
Joule (J)::::SI unit for work and energy.
Lever::::A simple machine that consists of a bar that pivots at a fixed point called a fulcrum.
Load Arm::::The distance from the pivot point (fulcrum) to the point where the load is attached to the arm of a lever.
Machine::::A device that can do work and, because of its mechanical advantage, can reduce the size of the effort force needed to do the work.
Load Distance::::The distance a load moves when acted on by a load force.
Load Force::::The force a machine exerts to lift a load. When lifting an object straight up, the load force is equal to the weight of the object.
Output Work::::The work done on a load by a machine or motor. Output work is the product of load force and load distance.
Input Work::::The work done by the effort force in a simple machine or motor. It is calculated by multiplying effort force by effort distance.
Power::::The rate of doing work or the rate of changing energy. Power = Work / Time
Watt::::The SI unit of power. One Watt is equal to 1 joule per second.
Work::::The product of a force and the distance through which it acts.
Six Simple Machines::::Inclined Plane, Wedge, Screw, Lever, Wheel and Axle, and Pulley
Pulley::::A simple machine that consists of a rope that fits into a groove in a wheel.
Screw::::A simple machine that consists of an inclined plane wrapped around a cylinder.
Wedge::::A simple machine that is an inclined plane with one or two sloping sides.
Wheel and Axle::::A simple machine that consists of a shaft or axle attached to the center of a larger wheel, so that the shaft and the wheel rotate together.
Simple Machine::::A device that reduces the amount of force needed to perform a task or changes the direction of a force.